Victor Marks

Navigating in Terminal

What is the difference between / and ~? What do we call each of these directories?
The root directory is denoted by the / sign while the user's home directory is given with a ~ sign.

What command do we use to change directories?
cd

What is the difference between an absolute and relative path?
An absolute path starts at the root directory while a relative path starts from your current location.

Working with Files and Folders

Create a file called name.txt.
touch name.txt

Try renaming the file to rename.txt using the mv command. What does this tell you about the command?
mv name.txt rename.txt
You can rename files in addition to moving files with the mv command.

Using the cp command, make a copy of rename.txt and call it copy.txt.
cp rename.txt copy.txt

Remove the file copy.txt.
rm copy.txt

Create a folder called questions.
mkdir questions

Change directories to the questions folder.
cd questions

Create a file called first.txt.
touch first.txt

Create a file called second.txt.
touch second.txt

Go back a directory and make a copy of the questions folder and call it questions_copy.
cd
cp -r questions questions_copy

When using cp -r what is the -r called? What does it do?
-r is known as a flag that will override errors to allow you to copy files.

Delete the original questions folder and the copy.
rm -rf questions
rm -rf questions_copy

Terminal Basics Exercises
Part I
make a directory called first
mkdir first

change directory to the first folder
cd first

create a file called person.txt
touch person.txt

change the name of person.txt to another.txt
mv person.txt another.txt

make a copy of the another.txt file and call it copy.txt
cp another.txt copy.txt

remove the copy.txt file
rm copy.txt

make a copy of the first folder and call it second
cp -r first second

delete the second folder
rm -rf second

Part II
What does the man command do? Type in man rm. How do you scroll and get out?
Man command shows you how the different flags affect command. Scroll up or down and press 'q' to escape.

Look at the man page for ls. What does the -l flag do? What does the -a flag do?
-l flag gives a detailed list of files. -a flag lists all files including hidden files.

Use less to look at the contents of google.html.
less google.html

Look at the man page for less. Read the section on /pattern. Search for the text hplogo in the google.html file.
hplogo google.html.

How do you jump between words in the terminal?
option left/right

How do you get to the end of a line in terminal?
ctrl + e

How do you move your cursor to the beginning in terminal? How do you delete a word (without pressing backspace multiple times) in terminal?
ctrl + a
option + delete

What is the difference between a terminal and shell?
The shell receives input and handles commands while the terminal relays those commands to the computer/environment

What is an absolute path?
An absolute path starts at the root directory and gives a step-by-step path to final location.

What is an relative path?
A relative path goes to target location from current location.

What is a flag? Give three examples of flags you have used.
A flag gives a command more options. We've seen -a and -l for the ls command and -r and -f for the rm command.

What do the r and f flags do with the rm command?
-r removes folders and -f uses force removal. 

Permissions, Redirection, and Piping Exercise
Part I
Create a file called restricted.txt.
touch restricted.txt

Change the permissions on the restricted.txt file to allow the owner to read and write to the restricted.txt file. Do this using the Octal Notation.
chmod 600 restricted.txt

Change the permissions on the restricted.txt file to only allow the owner, group and everyone to read and write and execute the restricted.txt file. Do this using the Symbolic notation.
chmod a+rwx restricted.txt

Create a folder called secret_files. Inside the secret_files folder create a file called first_secret.txt and another folder called classified. Inside of the classified folder create a file called super_secret.txt.
mkdir secret_files
touch first_secret.txt
cd ..
mkdir classified
touch super_secret.txt

Change the permissions on the secret_files to only allow the owner and group to read, write and execute in all the files and folders inside of secret_files. Do this using the Octal Notation.
chmod -R 770 secret_files

Create a hard link for the restricted.txt called hard_link.
ln restricted.txt hard_link

Create a symbolic link for the classified folder called classified_link.
ln -s secret_files/classified classified_link

Part II
Sort vegetables.txt.
sort vegetables.txt
___
Amaranth
Amaranth
Beet
Beet
Broccoli
Broccoli
Cabbage
Cabbage
Celery
Chard
Dill
Dill
Kale
Lettuce
Lettuce
Spinach

Count the number of lines in vegetables.txt.
wc -l vegetables.txt
15

Create a file called vegetables_sorted.txt which contains all the unique vegetables sorted in ascending order in vegetables.txt (do this without the touch command).
cat vegetables.txt | sort | uniq > vegetables_sorted.txt

Create a file called last_three.txt which contains the last three vegetables in the vegetables.txt file (do this without the touch command).
cat vegetables.txt | tail -n 3 > last_three.txt

Count the number of lines the word "Broccoli" appears on (using wc and grep).

cat vegetables.txt | grep "Broccoli" | wc -l
2

Intermediate Terminal Exercises
Part I
Create an environment variable called FIRST_NAME and set it equal to your first name (this does not need to be permanent)
export FIRST_NAME=Victor

Print the FIRST_NAME variable
echo $FIRST_NAME

Print out the $PATH variable
echo $PATH

What is the $PATH variable?
It directs where to send commands.

Why would you want to create an environment variable?
To re-use variables in a secure setting.

How do you permanently save environment variables?
to my .zshrc

What is a process?
A process is a program being run by the computer.

How do you list all processes running on your machine?
ps -ax

What is a PID?
It's the tag given to a process. Can be used to stop said process.

How do you terminate a process?
Use kill or kill -9 command

What is the difference between kill and kill -9?
kill will stop any program that is not restricted. kill -9 will override and then kill any processes that don't want to be killed.

What grep flag allows for case insensitive search?
-i

What grep flag allows for a certain number of lines before the match?
-B

What grep flag allows for a certain number of lines around the match?
-C

What grep flag allows for a certain number of lines after the match?
-A

What grep flag allows for full word search?
-w

What grep flag shows you the line number of a match?
-n

Part II
Find all files inside the Desktop folder that have a name of "learn."
find ~/Desktop -name "learn"

Find all files inside the Desktop folder that start with a "P."
find ~/Desktop -name "P.*"

Find all files inside the Desktop folder that end with .txt.
find ~/Desktop -name "*.txt"

Find all files inside the Desktop/views folder that have the name data somewhere in their filename.
~/Desktop/views -name "*data*"

Inside of the instructors.txt file, output the number of times the word "Elie" appears.
grep -c "Elie" instructors.txt

Inside of the instructors.txt file, list all matches for any full word that starts with a capital "P."
grep -w "P.*" instructors.txt

Inside of the instructors.txt file, list all the line numbers for any full word that starts with a "z" (it should match regardless of upper or lower case).
grep -niw "z.*" instructors.txt

